About Jukebox

As avid listeners of music, we find that each song not only affects our mood, but also our view of the world. Therefore, it was important for us to have a place to document those feelings and thoughts. This passion is why Jukebox exists; it's a platform to permanently create, share, and discover what makes music great.

Create an account and choose your own profile picture, username, and password. After registering, you can start writing your entries through the Create tab. Input the song, artist’s name, genre, and your thoughts on it. You can also set the privacy setting of the post to private, which is “Only I can view,” or public, which is “Everyone can view." Once you post your first entry, you can see it in the My Radio tab. In the Discover tab is every user’s public entry. This page is a way to explore what others are thinking and their music tastes!

Through the Discover tab, you can view anyone’s public entry. By clicking on the entry, you will see the expanded version. You can also click on someone’s username, see their profile, access their public entries, and even “follow” them through Discovery. Clicking on the “Feed” tab will let you view all the entries made by the users you followed. In addition, you have the ability to “favorite” any entries (including your own) by clicking on the Favorite button. Once an entry is favorited, it will show up in your Favorites tab. You can “unfavorite” something simply by clicking on the entry again from your Favorites tab proceeded by clicking the “Unfavorite” button.

As a user, you can customize Jukebox to your liking, such as setting your own profile picture. Going to the “Edit Profile” tab will allow you to update your profile picture to a new one. Explore what profile picture options are available by going through each one, or by looking at other user profiles! To find anyone on Jukebox, you can use the search feature in the “Search” tab. Enter in any username and the results will tell you if such a user exists. If they do exist, you can view their profile by clicking on their username.

